ybbr_candidate_alanine_scan.txt: this is an alanine scan based on ybbr11, in
which we go one position at a time through ybbr11 and replace it with an
alanine.  The idea is to see which positions have an important effect on
function and which don't.  Positions at which an alanine was already present
don't have anything replaced.

Email from Nick Kosa on 4/1/2013:

Thanks for the reply, Peter. I have compiled the current substrate/non-substrate amino acid sequences into a spreadsheet to hopefully make things easier. I have separated the carrier proteins into “substrate” and “non-substrate” tabs.

Each tab contains the list of substrate carrier proteins with corresponding sequences, and if the protein was originally part of a larger synthase I also included the original full sequence. Some proteins were used in a truncated form, and one as the full synthase. The protein actually used to test activity with PaAcpH is highlighted in dark green. I previously referred to “PaAcpH” generically as AcpH, but I need to become more specific about discussing AcpH varieties.

Since some of these sequences get quite long, I have additionally marked the site of phosphopantetheine attachment (a conserved serine) in bold red. I also provided the flanking regions of the active site serine in either direction (N and C-terminus) up to 20 amino acids total, in the presumption that these regions would more than likely be more important than distal sites in AcpH/carrier protein recognition (as is the case with the PPTase we use in attaching the phosphopantetheine).

Also, we will work on rudimentary kinetics for these substrates, as well as implementing a new binding assay. These should help our task down the line of ranking these qualitative results.


Peter Frazier's response on 4/3/2013:

I have one question, related to what we called "enzyme 1" and "enzyme 2" in the discussions I had with Mike, Mike & Nathan:

Is it true that PaAcpH is "enzyme 2" from our discussions, and that all of these peptides in Nick's spreadsheet (in both the Substrates and Non-Substrates worksheets) act as substrates for "enzyme 1"?


Nick's response on 4/3/2013:

I wasn’t there for the discussion you all had, so I don’t know which enzyme specifically they were using for enzyme 1 and 2. However, I imagine they referred to the PPTase as enzyme 1 since it adds the phosphopantetheine label, and PaAcpH as “enzyme 2” because it removes the phosphopantetheine label from the carrier protein substrate.

All the intact proteins listed work with enzyme 1 (PPTase, specifically Sfp from Bacillus subtilis), whereas only the confirmed substrate tab works with enzyme 2 (PaAcpH, from Pseudomonas aeruginosa).

Additionally, the 2005 Walsh paper “Genetically encoded short peptide tag…” I sent previously has a few peptides that work with Sfp and AcpS PPTases. I should have included those in the excel spreadsheet, in retrospect.



Peter's response on 4/3/2013:

Wonderful.  Thank you Nick.  This answers my question.

I'll make sure we get those additional peptides pulled out of the Walsh paper before we run our analysis.


